Welcome back everyone.
In the last lesson we learned how to hook into this on create node method inside of our Gatsby no J.S.
This method allowed us to hook into the build process when Gatsby would go through our files and build
out the individual node representations of them and then we were specifically looking for nodes of the
type of markdown remark.
We then added this new node field on it equal to slug and the slug pointed to the new file path that
we've made.
So now that we've modified these markdown nodes we have the actual slug value that we can access inside
of our application.
And in this lesson we actually need to use that because we're going to build out the final pages that
are markdowns represent inside of our website that point to the actual blog posts that we want the users
to see.
So just like we saw with our pages folder which had any files that we wanted to represent as the final
page that our users could see we're going to do the same thing with our markdown files.
So one thing that we have to know is that we have to use a another method inside of our Gatsby No j
s I'm going to give you documentation to this API so that you can see any other methods you can access
and you can also look up anything that we've already used before to get a better understanding of it.
But the next one we're going to use is called create pages and create pages gets two arguments that
we wanted to structure off the first one is just graphed you all which is pretty much the same way that
we've made graph Q all queries before we can just now do so inside of our No j s and the other thing
we get is actions.
Now what we're going to pull off of these actions is the method create page create page is an action
that allows us to actually build the pages inside of our application based on whatever properties we
pass to it that will discover once we actually use it.
So what we want to actually return from our create pages function right here though is we want to return
a graph to a query that gives us back all of our markdown remarks.
Then we're going to iterate over it and simply just call create page on each of those markdown notes.
So in order for us to do this we have to use the graph Q all query that we got back.
So to use it we're just going to say graph Q Well and then we're gonna pass it with these parentheses
now if you're curious as to why inside of here we have to use these parentheses whereas inside of our
front end react applications.
We don't.
This is because there's a new template syntax in iOS 6 that allows you to pass template literal strings
like this in the front end.
As long as you have access to iOS 6 which is pretty much equivalent to doing this there's really no
difference.
But because with no JSA we do not get iOS 6 features right out jump.
We do not have access to writing it this way.
So we have to pass these parentheses just if you're curious as to why here we have to do it.
So that's just one thing you have to remember if you ever use the graph queue I'll query inside of your
note jazz.
Now there are setups that you can do with no jazz and express so that you do get to use that same syntax
as you are familiar with in your front end.
But in our case it's not necessary it's extra work that really just to avoid adding these parentheses
is not worth it.
But now that we have our graph you query it.
We have to make the actual query for our all markdown remarks so we're going to do this inside of our
graphical just so we can actually see this.
So inside of your playground what you're gonna do is you are going to click all marked down remark.
We want the edges.
We want the note from these edges.
We want the fields and off these fields we want the slug.
If we fire off this request we see that this is going to be the object we get back we're going to need
to pull off this edges array and iterate over this so that we can call create page using each of these
node objects to build the actual page because this holds the data that we need.
So let's just copy over our query object.
We'll go back to our code and just paste this in now graph Q Well the method will simply return as a
result inside of a promise.
So once this resolves we just call dot then on it and we will get the result value and off of that result
value it will be that shape that we saw.
So we want to look at the data and off the data we want are all marked down remark and all our markdown
remark we want the edges array.
So we just want to loop over this array with for each and for every element inside we want to pluck
off the note because that's all we need
now with this node we are going to call create page and we're going to pass create page a object and
this object is going to define the properties that this create page needs in order to actually build
out the page that we're looking for.
So the first thing it needs is the path the path will tell it in the final application what path actually
leads to this page that I'm building.
And this is where we're going to use our slug.
So we're gonna say node fields that slug and here we're going to pass the actual component.
Now the component is going to be the template that it uses in order to actually populate out the final
blog post.
So this is pretty much going to be a react component.
And here we're going to make the new blog post template that we need to use for this context.
So we do want to keep this component that we're going to build separate from our front end components
because it will only be used inside of our Gatsby No j s file.
So we'll make a new folder called templates and inside of here we're gonna make a new file called blog
post doc J us.
So normally you might be used to every react component that we write being dodgy ASX and this is totally
valid too if you want to make it dodgy X but because every single react component that we have inside
of our Gatsby folder is a dodgy s file for consistency sake we'll just use dot J.S. babble and knows
that if you have react inside of your javascript it will convert it to regular javascript so it's not
a big issue it'll still work.
So here we're just going to say blog post dot J us now because this video is getting too long.
Let's just break this up and continue this inside of our next lesson.